.TH PIDSTAT 1 "MAY 2007" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
pidstat \- Report statistics for Linux tasks.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pidstat [ -C
.I comm
.B ] [ -d ] [ -I ] [ -p {
.I pid
.B | SELF | ALL } ] [ -r ] [ -u ] [ -V ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pidstat
command is used for monitoring individual tasks currently being managed
by the Linux kernel.
It writes to standard output activities for every task selected with option
.B -p
or for every task managed by the Linux kernel if option
.B -p ALL
has been used. If no task has been explicitly selected (i.e. option
.B -p
has not been entered on the command line) then only active tasks will appear
in the report.

The
.I interval
parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between each report.
A value of 0 (or no parameters at all) indicates that tasks statistics are
to be reported for the time since system startup (boot).
The
.I count
parameter can be specified in conjunction with the
.I interval
parameter if this one is not set to zero. The value of
.I count
determines the number of reports generated at
.I interval
seconds apart. If the
.I interval
parameter is specified without the
.I count
parameter, the
.B pidstat
command generates reports continuously.

You can select information about specific system activities using flags.
Not specifying any flags selects only CPU activity.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-C comm"
Display only tasks whose command name includes the string
.IR comm .
.IP -d
Report I/O statistics (kernels 2.6.20 and later only).
The following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the task being monitored.
.RE

.B kB_rd/s
.RS
Number of kilobytes the task has caused to be read from disk
per second.
.RE

.B kB_wr/s
.RS
Number of kilobytes the task has caused, or shall cause to be
written to disk per second.
.RE

.B kB_ccwr/s
.RS
Number of kilobytes whose writing to disk has been cancelled by
the task. This may occur when the task truncates some
dirty pagecache. In this case, some IO which another task has
been accounted for will not be happening.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task.
.RE
.RE
.IP -I
In an SMP environment, indicate that tasks CPU usage (as displayed by option
.B -u
) should be divided by the total number of processors.
.IP "-p { pid | SELF | ALL }"
Select tasks (processes) for which statistics are to be reported.
.B pid
is the process identification number. The
.B SELF
keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for the
.B pidstat
process itself, whereas the
.B ALL
keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for all the
tasks managed by the system.
.IP -r
Report page faults and memory utilization.
The following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the task being monitored.
.RE

.B minflt/s
.RS
Total number of minor faults the task has made per second, those
which have not required loading a memory page from disk.
.RE

.B majflt/s
.RS
Total number of major faults the task has made per second, those
which have required loading a memory page from disk.
.RE

.B VSZ
.RS
Virtual Size: The virtual memory usage of entire task in kilobytes.
.RE

.B RSS
.RS
Resident Set Size: The non-swapped physical memory
used by the task in kilobytes.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task.
.RE
.RE
.IP -u
Report CPU utilization. The following values are displayed:

.B PID
.RS
.RS
The identification number of the task being monitored.
.RE

.B %user
.RS
Percentage of CPU used by the task while executing at the user level
(application), with or without nice priority.
.RE

.B %system
.RS
Percentage of CPU used by the task while executing at the system level
(kernel).
.RE

.B %CPU
.RS
Total percentage of CPU time used by the task. In an SMP environment,
the task's CPU usage will be divided by the total number of CPU's if
option
.B -I
has been entered on the command line.
.RE

.B CPU
.RS
Processor number to which the task is attached.
.RE

.B Command
.RS
The command name of the task.
.RE
.RE
.IP -V
Print version number then exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The
.B pidstat
command takes into account the following environment variable:

.IP S_TIME_FORMAT
If this variable exists and its value is
.BR ISO
then the current locale will be ignored when printing the date in the report header.
The
.B pidstat
command will use the ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD) instead.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B pidstat 2 5
.RS
Display five reports of CPU statistics for every active task in the system
at two second intervals.
.RE

.B pidstat -r -p 1643 2 5
.RS
Display five reports of page faults and memory statistics for
PID 1643 at two second intervals.

.SH BUGS
.I /proc
filesystem must be mounted for the
.B pidstat
command to work.

.SH FILES
.IR /proc
contains various files with system statistics.

.SH AUTHOR
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> wanadoo.fr)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sar (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR mpstat (1),
.BR iostat (1),
.BR vmstat (8)

.I http://perso.orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
